Now while we can
easily write JavaScript code in between the script element, in a real
world application, you have 1000 maybe even a million lines of code, we don't want to
write all that code in line here. We want to extract and
separate our JavaScript code from our html code. Let me give you a
metaphor. Think of your house. In your bedroom you have your
bed, and your clothes, you don't store your clothes in the kitchen. This is
what we call separation of concerns. You have the same principle
in programming so we want to separate html which is all about content,
from JavaScript which is all about behavior. How should
your web page behave, what should happen when we hover our mouse
over a given element? Maybe something should pop up maybe something should be hidden,
so we use JavaScript to implement behavior. So,
open up the explorer window, add the new file,
call it index.js.
Now, back in index.html, cut all this
JavaScript code here, and then paste it in index.js,
now in this simple application we have a single
file, a single JavaScript file, in a real world application we have hundreds or even
thousands of JavaScript files. Later in the course you will learn how to
combine these files into a bundle, and serve that bundle into the client.
Now, save the changes, back in index.
html, now that all our JavaScript code is in a separate file
we need to reference that file here. So,
let's add an attribute here, src, which is short for src,
and set it to index.js.
So this tells the browsers that our JavaScript code
is now in index.js save the changes
back in the browser, you can still see the Hello World message
and that confirms that our code is still working. In the next lecture,
we're going to execute this code in Node.